## john thomure
# **opensource:**

Where does copyright come from? It’s origins rest in the printing press and the concern over the mass distribution of the Bible (as the Church had wielded their control over their practitioners by keeping the information of the Bible secretly). Initially, the Church sought to ban the use of printing press. In a sense, copyright stems out of a desire to control. However, as the printing press is used literacy goes up, ideas are more greatly shared. Later on, during Henry VIII’s reign when all protestant material was censored by the Queen. The royal family approached the Stationer’s Guild and they are asked to burn all Protestant texts in exchange for a printing protection backed by the Royal family. Eventually, the deal is flipped where the Stationer’s guild now censors all catholic text backed by the now protestant royal family. Over the course of the English civil war, people began to question who would control printing rights if there was no royal family. It was thought that printing required a certain amount responsibility. The argument that “Ideas are property” came up during this time and there was the thought that the owners of “intellectual property” belonged to the author. In 1709, in an act called The Statute of Anne which decrees that an author holds intellectual property until they relinquish rights to a publishing company in exchange for publication and distribution. Intellectual property had a lifespan of about 14 years, with a possible additional 14 years that could be added if the author requested. Then America is founded in 1776, and decided to plagiarize the British copyright law with a few minor additions (such as how US copyright law only protected US authors and culture objects). As time has gone on, copyright has been seen as stifling to creativity. The most radical reinvention of copyright is embodied in Open Source. Open Source starts with the Free Software movement, which took an ethical stance on the sharing of software. The Free Software movement believed you needed to have “free” software which could be accessed by anyone for any reason. Open Source approached these issues from a business perspective. First, if you have to start from scratch for every project that takes too much time. By sharing and working alongside, projects can be created much quicker.
